---
tags:
  - NAT/BN meetings
  - Nomination Assessment Team meetings
---

# NAT meetings

**NAT meetings** are directed discussions hosted by the [Nomination Assessment Team](/wiki/People/Nomination_Assessment_Team) (*NAT*) in the `#modding` channel of the [osu! Discord server](/wiki/Community/Discord_servers#official). Meeting topics concern the [mapping](/wiki/Beatmapping) and [modding](/wiki/Modding) ecosystem, including problems, potential solutions, new ideas, and progress reports. While most contributors to the discussions are NAT members or [Beatmap Nominators](/wiki/People/Beatmap_Nominators), anyone is allowed to participate.

Meetings are usually announced over a week in advance in the `#modding` channel.

## Meeting topics

- 2019-12-29: Responsibilities of the NAT - [Notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1THKiYwiRBY-7PW__itoDrpUVeH7cmr5_QNtNMlkbNNs/edit?usp=sharing), [Summary](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1006014)
- 2020-01-03: Promotion of NAT members - [Notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1y3MAKp10Y-pAGDXqFIl9rKcd_Ym3WF3CjtDxPtY0-1k/edit?usp=sharing), [Summary](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1006119)
- 2020-01-18: Application evaluation - [Notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Q2MdQKEcCTXS7hYoFgmm9pPW8vcz4Wc_qCphTp8Bmlw/edit?usp=sharing), [Summary](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1012519)
- 2020-02-01: Progress reports and loose ends - [Notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1grwhfegjiFhb52oEZZB5v5ryN0kKGX6X0n8X6zSLxco/edit?usp=sharing)
- 2020-02-15: Current BN evaluation - [Notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Zu_FFHG6nzMniCOzveNlxPEv2dx8xkoi95s5UEaNRkg/edit?usp=sharing), [Summary](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1023943)
- 2020-03-01: Cultivating BNs - [Notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12OCLF33v5-Z7a3pZ39IdrQXGrvPf6IkGyq0AUKDo9ZA/edit?usp=sharing), [Summary](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1040487)
- 2020-03-22: State of the QAH and misc. - [Notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yZwXXT8OSU1HsLw-oobE-7MKlq-PZ5uggnTN33kPxaE/edit?usp=sharing), [Summary](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1040456)
- 2020-04-11: Genre and language settings - [Notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/13eCGWJuQ8hxdBTfqXoVgGhMBFwSZvaMZTuR1gK6lHtw/edit?usp=sharing), [Summary](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1059659)

### Planned topics

- Creating BN handbooks/guides (should finish the NAT ones first)
- BN activity/reset quantification for efficient evaluation (pending proposal)
- If/how/when reset severity applies to general map quality

### Dropped topics

These topics were too difficult to hold a meeting about for various reasons, but may become viable topics in the future:

| Topic | Reason for drop |
| :-- | :-- |
| BN/NAT work needs to be less robotic | Needs to be split up into specific problems and suggestions |
| Meaningful rewards for BN/NAT work | Not in the NAT's control |
| Letting BNs affect application and/or current BN evaluations | Scope is too large and a written proposal should be made first |
| NAT leadership/turnover/demotion | Scope is too large and a written proposal should be made first |
| Groundwork for mapping/modding wiki cleanup/rewrite | Too few people are willing to help out |
