---
layout: post
title: Mapper's Choice Awards and A Year In Mapping 2019
date: 2021-06-14 00:00:00 +0000
---

We're going to have a back to back experience for celebrating the 2019 and 2020 years of mapping!

This June and July will be Mappers' Choice Awards _(MCA)_ and A Year in Mapping _(AYIM)_ for the 2019 season, and soon after that we will be hosting the same events but for 2020!

It's been a while, but we're back with an epic pair of websites to allow for a better experience than ever.

For now, we're all about celebrating 2019!

## Schedule for MCA and AYIM 2019

| Event | Timestamp (UTC) |
| --: | :-- |
| Nomination stage | 2021-06-14 00:00 to 2021-06-21 00:00 |
| Voting stage | 2021-06-23 00:00 to 2021-07-07 00:00 |
| Results Stream | 2021-07-10 / 2021-07-11 |
| Results posted to Website | 2021-07-12 00:00 |

## A Year In Mapping 2019

AYIM is back at long last for another round of highlighting the achievements and statistics of the mapping community in 2019. As in previous editions, each mode will have a section of statistics such as who ranked the most maps, how many difficulties were ranked overall, the extremes in difficulty levels we saw ranked, and a whole lot more records than you can think of.

**Here's what's new:** In previous years, organizers were responsible for writing comments on each mapper ranked that year. This time, we're opening it up to the whole community. Know some banger maps from 2019 or a mapper left a huge impression on you at that time? Let them know your thoughts by posting your comments to the website. This is open to _everyone_ to participate in, so let your positivty be heard!

Writing comments will be open until the results of MCA are posted.

All of these statistics and features can be found on the [AYIM Website](ayim.corsace.io)

## Mapper's Choice Awards 2019

MCA is an event where eligible users can participate in nominating and voting on the best maps of each of the four game modes as well as storyboards. 

Eligible users are those who ranked a beatmap or storyboard in 2019.

MCA has three stages: Nomination, voting, and results.
- **Nomination:** Eligible users can submit any maps/storyboards or users from 2019 they feel are deserving of recognition in their respective categories.
- **Voting:** Eligible users can vote on the pool of submitted nominations.
- **Results:** Will be based off the results of voting and feature a livestream discussing each of the top winners. 

This event will give perspective on what the community of that time finds to be the best maps of the year and will serve as an awesome reminder of what we've seen from 2019!

Nomination and voting will be happening through the [MCA Website](mca.corsace.io) so be sure to check it out.


---

We hope everyone can enjoy checking out MCA and AYIM as the events go on! Thank you to everyone who has made these possible, especially our main organizer [VINXIS](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4323406). We look forwrard to seeing everyone's votes and comments for 2019.
