# Installation on macOS

This page will roughly guide you on installing osu! on your macOS device.

## Minimum system requirements

- A decent computer running macOS.

## Installing osu!

The macOS version of osu! is subject to minor display bugs and less performant gameplay. The game may not function perfectly at first and takes some fine-tuning to get used to. In order to install it, take the following steps:

1. Go to the [unofficial Wineskin download page](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1106057), download the latest Wineskin and unzip it.
2. Download the [unofficial osu!macOS Agent tool](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1036678) and use it to repair the `osu!.app` file. Alternatively:
   1. Move `osu!.app` to the desktop.
   2. Open Terminal, copy this command: `xattr -c 'Desktop/osu!.app'`, and press the `Return` key.
3. Double click on `osu!.app` to open it.
4. The installer will run automatically. The installation location cannot be changed and will reside directly inside `osu!.app`. Moving `osu!.app` will move all of the files that come with it including any [beatmaps](/wiki/Beatmap) and [skins](/wiki/Skin). You can also right click it and select `Show Package Contents` to view the files within the folder.
5. When the installation is complete, osu! will start up right after. osu!direct will be used to download some starter beatmaps for you.
6. osu! will prompt you to sign in or register.
   - If you have an account already, sign in.
   - If you need to register, see [Registration](/wiki/Registration), then sign in.

## Troubleshooting

If you have difficulties opening osu!, then the following steps may help you:

1. Check the report generated by *osu!macOS Agent* for any errors.
   - If you are using an older version of macOS Catalina (before or equal to 10.15.4), then you must either update macOS (recommended) or disable [System Integrity Protection](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/security/disabling_and_enabling_system_integrity_protection).
2. Use the extractor "Archive Utility" builtin to macOS. Other extractors may not unzip the Wineskin correctly.
3. If you have an antivirus installed, ensure that it is disabled when you unzip osu! or else it may quarantine files required by Wine.
4. If nothing works, you can create a post in the [Help forum](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/5).

## osu!(lazer)

[osu!(lazer)](/wiki/Client/Release_stream/Lazer) is the future game client of osu! currently in development. In order to install it, take the following steps:

1. Go to the [osu!(lazer) download page](https://github.com/ppy/osu/releases/latest), download `osu!.app.zip` and unzip it.
2. Double click on osu! and press `Open` to open it.
3. If a dialog asks you to allow osu! to receive keystrokes:
   1. Click on the `Open System Preferences` button.
   2. Click on the padlock in the bottom left corner and enter your password.
   3. Tick the checkbox next to the osu! icon.
