---
layout: post
title: osu!coins!
date: 2015-03-31 00:00:00 +0000
tumblr_url: http://osunews.tumblr.com/post/115118189213/osucoins
---

Hey guys, peppy here! After some long hard considerations, I have determined the current business model is unprofitable.

At the current rate of return, it would be unlikely for me to purchase a personal jet within my lifetime, which is one of my primary life goals. Thus I held discussions with the team on alternate forms of monetisation, studying the current trends in similar free-to-play games currently available on the market.

In order to not completely alienate the current user base, we had to innovate a new synergistic strategy that leveraged osu!'s current market-leadership and continued to engage the player to ensure an increased conversion rate.

Our research showed that a lot of the current user base could not afford to pay for a full-priced AAA title. So in order to strike a completely fair balance, We're happy to announce that osu! will still be completely free-to-play!*

But in order to increase revenue, we will be "chasing the whales" by adding a new in-game currency - the osu!coin! These are targeted at those that excessively play osu! and have become addicted - i.e. those of you that would buy-in regardless of how much I charge!

<iframe width="760" height="420" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/BImc5McuK1o" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen=""></iframe>

Skilled players will also be able to earn osu!coins for every 100-combo they achieve, this incentivises them to improve, whilst keeping them addicted to osu! What will osu!coins be used for you ask? Playing, of course!

Via our ingame metrics and reporting tools, we determined that the average beginner plays around 10 beatmaps a day. As such, every player will be granted 10 osu!coins each day to play with! I think this is pretty generous.

Each osu!coin will be consumed at a rate of 1 coin per song (with an additional cost of 1 osu!coin per restart to disincentive the grinding of 100-combos for osu!coins).

For those that wishing to play more, they can purchase additional coins for the low prices listed below:

- 1 osu!coin = $1 USD
- 10 osu!coins = $10 USD
- 1000 osu!coins = $999USD (Saves you 0.001%! BEST VALUE!)
- Infinite osu!coins = Your first unborn child - osu! needs more team members, have your unborn child work off your debts! :)

As a gesture of goodwill, and as a thank-you for all the support to current players, we will be extending an extra bonus of 2 osu!coins to all current players!

This is still early in development, so be sure to report any issues or bugs you have with the system! The sooner we can get all these resolved, the sooner I can get my jet! :)

We're sure you'll love this, so be sure to let us know how many osu!coins you plan on buying when we go live!

—peppy
