---
layout: post
title: "China LAN 2025: Signups Now Open!"
date: 2024-05-12 12:00:00 +0000
---

We're excited to announce the new [China LAN 2025](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/2080306), an in-person osu!standard and osu!mania tournament based in Shanghai, China!

`main banner goes here`

The tournament will feature many custom maps, original songs, and the best players of the Chinese region. This is your chance to prove your skills and meet your favorite players face-to-face!

For our Chinese contestants: [点击此处查看中文版主题](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/2080306)。

## Where and When?

**China LAN 2025** will take place in **Shanghai, China** and lasting for 2 days - July 12th and 13th.
*Exact venue location will be announced later, pending final government approval.*

A valid ticket for the event is required to attend. All players who qualify for the LAN stage will receive a free ticket as part of their participation.

## Tournament Format

-   Open rank, but restricted to 🇨🇳 🇭🇰 🇲🇴 🇹🇼 only
-   Airfare reimbursement of up to 1500 RMB for qualified players
-   RO16 single elimination for both gamemodes

## Tournament schedule

| Stage | Dates | Notes |
| --: | :-- | :-- |
| Qualifiers | June 14 – June 15[^1] | Registration confirmed upon finishing a lobby |
| Round of 16 | June 21 – June 22[^1] | Best of 9, 1 ban |
| Quarterfinals | July 12[^2] | 10:30–15:50 • Best of 11, 2 bans |
| Semifinals | July 13[^2] | 10:30–12:40 • Best of 11, 2 bans |
| Finals | July 13[^2] | 15:00–16:30 • Best of 13, 2 bans |

[^1] Online event
[^2] LAN day 1 and 2

## Prize Pool

| Placement | Prize |
| --: | :-- |
| Winner | 2400 RMB, additional 50% of the donation pool and profile badge (pending) |
| Runner-up | 1200 RMB and additional 20% of the donation pool |
| 3rd Place | 800 RMB and additional 10% of the donation pool |
| 4th Place | 1200 RMB and additional 20% of the donation pool |
| Top 5 - 8 | 3% of the donation pool per player |

*The tournament's prize pool is raised through community donations — if you're interested in contributing, please visit the [forum post](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/2080306)!*

## Sounds interesting! What should I do?
Great question! Whether you're a long-time grinder or just eager to click circles (or columns) in person, China LAN 2025 is your stage. Clear the qualifier screening, bring your A-game to Shanghai, and be part of one of the most exciting osu! events in the region!

For live announcements, questions, and qualifier updates, hop into our [Discord server](https://discord.com/invite/dpa5Qr4tu8) and join the hype! You can also check out our official forum post for discussion and more detailed information!

Please stay tuned for official announcements regarding the venue details and the registration link. We'll see you in Shanghai!

—FcEazy
